Public ADOM Server scripts README
See LICENSE for copyright and licensing details

Table of contents:
	I. About
	II. Install
	III. Usage
	IV. Administration
	V. Changelog
	VI. Contributing
	VII. Contact
	VIII. Authors
	
I. About
--------

These are scripts to support running a multi-user, multi-version ADOM server,
with useful mods for the game, IRC bots useful for ADOM players, and social
features.

Why?

- ADOM was not at all designed to run multiple versions on the same system.
- For the 10 years with no new versions, mods were the only way to prevent or 
  recover from crashes.
- Mods add neat features like a starsign selector and autoswap with friendlies.
- Database dumps provide invaluable information to the optimal player.
- It is a single player game, but watching other players and seeing their wins
  (or deaths) is social, and having a win be recorded publicly is a great
  ego boost.

ADOM can be found at http://adom.de or http://ancardia.com . 
ADOM is Copyright (c) 1994-2013 by Thomas Biskup.

II. Install
-----------

A basic Linux system is required.  The distribution should be relatively
modern; Debian 6+ or Ubuntu 12.04+ are recommended, but almost any will work.

Please read the included INSTALL file, as there are many moving parts to touch.

At the very least, you should create a non-root user to own the server scripts,
before checking out or unpacking the code.

III. Usage
---------

Once set up, the full usage readme is at public_html/readme.php.

The short version:

* SSH in with user adom and password adom, and follow prompts to create a new 
user.

* Then SSH in as the new user.

IV. Administration
-------------------

* To edit the banner on the top of the main menu, edit etc/motd in the server 
homedir. Bash color codes can be used (but double-escape any \s).

* To add support for new 1.2.0 prereleases, just edit etc/config and change
  MAX_PRE. This will 'just work', but it will be vanilla with none of the 
  servers' binary modifications.  Sage will need to be recompiled once it 
  supports the new version, and the same for the binary wrapper (INSTALL 
  section II.x.b).

* Setting up a web server and domain is out of scope for this document, but
  is recommended to do. See section III.xix of the INSTALL for more.

* New ADOM versions require small edits to the binary to enable sharing of
  HISCORES and avoid clobbering other versions. See section II.x of the INSTALL
  for more details.

* New versions of Sage may be released.  To use them, see the install directions
  in section II.x.c in the INSTALL file.

* When a user signs up, he is asked for his e-mail address. The address is stored
  in the user's GECOS field in /etc/passwd. If he needs a password reset, the 
  admin can extract his e-mail address with command:

  getent passwd "USERNAMEHERE" | cut -d ':' -f 5 | cut -d ',' -f 2

  then set a new password for him and e-mail it to him. If he didn't set an email
  (the previous command returns nothing), it's up to the admin what to do.

V. Changelog
------------

See CHANGELOG file.

VI. Contributing
---------------

Submit a pull request on GitHub and I'll figure it out.

VII. Contact
-----------

http://www.adom.de/forums/showthread.php/493

Alucard on #adom on irc.FreeNode.net
Other netizens there can also answer usage questions.

Alucard <saturos@gmail.com>

VIII. Authors
------------
Christopher Henning aka Alucard(Zero), author of the rest
Jaakko Salo aka jaakkos, author of the vast majority of 1.0
Sampsa "Tuplanolla" Kiiskinen
